So, I'm going to talk about DIP PLC, which
has a few sort of slightly surprising properties to it.
It's a slightly confusing system.
What does it mean?
A self-authenticating decentralized identifier, which is strongly consistent, recover
able, and has key rotation.
Okay, so four things.
Strongly consistent, recoverable, self-authenticating, and key rotation.
And the slightly weird thing about this is, it does have all
these properties, but not all at the same time.
As far as I'm aware, it's technically impossible to have
all these properties at the same time.
Let me explain what I mean.
So, what do we mean when we say self-authenticating?
We mean that you can look at the data, and you can
confirm it's valid without looking at anything else.
Okay, so the classic example is an IPFS document.
If you have the ID of an IPFS document, that is
a hash.
So, if somebody you don't trust it gives you the document,
you can then recreate that hash and make sure that it's
correct.
Okay?
So, how does this look in DIP PLC?
Well, when you first create a new account in DIP PL
C, it's exactly like that, right?
So, for your first account, you make a document.
You put in, for example, your blue sky handle, your PDS,
a load of other stuff, and you put in the key that
's going to control this account.
This is called the rotation key, and you take the hash of
this document, and that hashes your ID.
Okay?
So, this is exactly like IPFS, self-authenticating content
address.
Then, if you want to make a change, what we're going
to do is we're going to replace maybe one of the,
maybe replace the handle, replace one of the fields in there, and
then we're going to sign it with the key that we
stated in that previous update.
Okay?
So, this is also cryptographically verifiable.
This is also basically self-authenticating, assuming you've got
the whole chain.
If I want to check this, I can check the signature on
this second one.
I can then check that it matches the key in the first
one, and then I can check the hash of the first one.
So, I can authenticate the whole chain.
I don't need to ask anybody else.
Okay?
But we also have this property of key rotation.
So, what happens when we want to rotate the key?
So, the first thing we're going to do is we're
going to make a new document with our new key that we
want to change, and we're going to sign it with our
old key.
Okay?
And then, once we've done that, we can now sign all
our future updates with the new key.
And as far for normal key rotation, that means that it doesn
't matter what happens to the old key.
Okay?
We can leak that on the internet if we like.
It doesn't matter.
It's rotated out.
You do this because you no longer trust the old key.
Okay?
So, that's what we've done.
The problem is, what happens if somebody does this?
If somebody takes the old key, and they put an update ch
ained on top of one of my early updates, and they pretend
that these later updates didn't happen.
Okay?
So, if you have this situation where somebody is in control of
one of your old keys, this is no longer self-authent
icating.
Okay?
It's no longer self-authenticating because we did key
rotation.
So, we've got these kind of really different properties.
Even though we all have dids, and they look the same,
different dids have really fundamentally different security properties.
Some dids, your initial document is self-authenticating a
content address.
Okay?
The one that you then updated is also self-authenticating.
Right down at the other end, if you've rotated your key
and the earlier key has leaked, then this is not at all
self-authenticating.
Okay?
And then in the middle, there's this situation that a lot
of people who have migrated their PDS are in, where you
have the key in your history, but that key hasn't leaked.
Right?
So, if you're on Blue Sky, you've probably got their
rotation key in your history, but that key, as far as we
know, is still secure.
So, there is only one chain of your identity, but we don
't know what will happen in future.
So, this situation at the top is very, very blessed.
Right?
This is wonderful.
This is just like, this has the same security as, like, an
IPFS hash or a Bitcoin or an Ethereum address or, for
example, a Nostra ID.
So, if you run into, like, a Nostra enthusiast
who is concerned about, like, I heard about this central server that
I'm going to talk to you about.
You can tell them, if you are happy with the Nost
ra feature set, right?
Because the way they do it in Nostra is just
don't do key rotation.
You just don't lose your key.
If you're happy with the Nostra feature set, you
can have Nostra-style security with DIP PLC.
Right?
But once you use this feature set, in certain circumstances that are
kind of out of our control, we then lose this security property
and we end up with kind of a really differently secured system.
So, right down at the bottom, we're not self-authent
icating.
We've got Sadako crawling out of our TV screens.
Our DID is cursed.
We can no longer verify just by looking at it whether it
's correct or not.
Okay?
So, the solution in DIP PLC is to use a
trusted sequencer.
So, the job of a sequencer is to say, this is
when this update was published.
And since I know that this one was published earlier, I then
know that the evil one that we did later is invalid.
Right?
So, they can choose the canonical chain and the correct way to
resolve your ID.
And there's another slightly confusing thing about the DIP PL
C system, which is that this server actually has two jobs.
And they're really, really different jobs and have kind of really
different properties.
So, it's a sequencer, but it's also a data
publisher.
And you didn't have to do these together, right?
These are fundamentally different things.
They could have been...
They're different roles.
They could have been done differently.
And they have really different implications.
Okay.
So, what happens if this trusted server goes rogue?
And you might think, okay, why is it going to go rogue?
I'll give you one example of what I mean by rogue.
So, we had this issue in Turkey where there was a legal
proceeding in Turkey that said that Blue Sky had to ban some
Turkish dissidents.
Okay?
And they didn't do this at the level of the directory.
They did this just at the level of their PDS.
But what this shows us is these well-meaning people, they
are not in the tank for the prime minister of Turkey.
Right?
But well-meaning people can have pressure put on them to
do things that they would not necessarily want to do.
Okay?
Because they live in the real world.
If they didn't do that, they couldn't change planes in
Istanbul.
And potentially, for example, the Blue Sky app would be banned from
the App Store, at the very least in Turkey and potentially everywhere
else.
Okay?
So, there's now a plan which, until today, I thought was
a good plan, to go with a separate organization.
And just thinking about my own talk, I realize it may not
be a good plan.
To go with a separate organization that's going to run the
directory, there's going to be a board of trustworthy people on
this, you know, on this board in control of it.
And they're genuinely, you know, as far as I can tell,
trustworthy people.
So, let's assume that we succeed in the task of keeping
psychopaths off this board, which is an unsolved problem in,
like, human governance, right?
So, generally, you know, the first generation may not have psychopaths,
but they seem to somehow get there.
But let's assume that they're all honest, well-meaning
people, and they care about Proto.
Let's look at a similar example.
Private universities in the United States have a kind of a similar
governance structure.
And they're actually a really good case for this kind of
So, if you're trying to govern a private university in the
US, you've got a bunch of alumni who really care about
the institution, right?
They really care about the school.
And if they don't care about that, they care about their
own personal reputations.
So, this is a really good case for this governance that we
're doing with PLC directory.
But what happened was that the Trump administration put pressure on them
and took a bunch of things that they cared about hostage, right?
So, they said, "If you don't do the things that we
want, that we don't normally have the rights to make you
do, we are going to cancel grants that your researchers are due.
We're going to cancel the visas of overseas students at your
university." So, these people were put in this dilemma where they can
have the policies that they think they can have, or they can
compromise.
And if they compromise, then they're going to end up hurting
far fewer people than if they do what they're being told
to do.
So, ultimately, what, for example, Columbia and a lot of other universities
did was they threw trans people and Palestine protesters under the bus
to protect the majority of their institution, okay?
So, if you think about this with AppProto, if you
care about AppProto, there are all kinds of ways that
people can put pressure on you, right?
Can you get AppProto apps into the App Store?
Are you going to have network level blocks of the PLC
directory?
All kinds of things that you could do that will potentially put
a dilemma on the people who are governing this structure, even if
they're well-meaning people, and cause them to do something
that we may not think is what the social contract would tell
them to do, okay?
So, let's assume they go rogue.
Can we just do things?
Because I've got my client, right?
It's free software.
We've got our relays.
We know anybody can run the relays.
We've got our own PDSs.
There's nothing that says that we have to look at the
PLC directory.
We can do what we like.
So, if I've got a self-authentic did, this
is probably actually okay.
So, here's what we can do.
Somebody can set up the too hot for PLC directory.
The records that are being messed with by the PLC directory,
what we can do is we can query the PLC directory.
We can look at our own data, and if the PLC
directory refuses to answer for that record or if it's done
some weird -- well, no, if it's refusing to answer or if
it's not giving us the whole chain of updates that we
've got, then we can just serve what we've got, okay?
And the great thing about this is we don't really need
consensus to do this, right?
We can have, like, bitterly, mutually detesting factions of that
proto, and you can make your directory and I can make my
directory, but since this is self-authentic data we're
looking at, we're ultimately all going to get to the same
result, right?
As long as we share the data, we can all get to
the same result.
So, we have this property that we wanted.
I don't know if we still have strong consistency.
I think we do.
The problem is, okay, what about the sequencing part?
Because the sequencing part is something where only the directory is allowed
to make a decision, right?
And so, the sequencing -- it's making a decision about what time
did I receive this update?
And somebody else may honestly get that update at a different time.
So, sequencing requires us to just have this single directory, and that
's why it's designed like this, okay?
So, we can do things, but we all need to move together.
We need to do, like, a flag day.
We need to all say, like, from this day onwards, we're
using somebody else for the directory.
So, can we do that?
Maybe we can.
There are some sort of favorable precedents.
So, this happens in free software all the time, right?
So, Oracle took over OpenOffice and did all kinds of
nasty Oracle-type things.
And the developers and the users of OpenOffice just kind
of all got together and decided to use a different project, different
GitHub repo, different brand.
And everybody moved to LibreOffice, and basically, nobody uses
OpenOffice anymore.
Same thing with some blockchain systems.
So, Steam was one where there was this thing where the developers
of a protocol, for some reason that I don't quite understand,
had particular rights to do things to the protocol.
And Steam got bought up by Justin Sun, who is this kind
of crypto-comedy villain.
And the community, both the developers and the user, didn't want
this, so they forked the project to Hive.
They said, from this point in the history, like, from like 10
o'clock tomorrow, we're going to use our own version of
the software.
We're going to take out all the special privileges that Justin
Sun would have had, and we're going to carry on.
And they did that, and it worked.
And it's often been done, and it's often worked.
So, what have we got to do to replace a malfunctioning
PLC directory?
We all have to recognize the problem, okay?
We have to agree a new person who's going to run
it, and we have to get a snapshot of the directory from
some point in time, when we're going to switch over and
start using the new one.
So, the first problem is, do we agree that it broke, right?
So, ideally, the rogue directory would say, we're going rogue, right?
We're going to screw you all over.
This is now the wrong picture.
This should be-- it's Filippo here.
This should be Filippo.
Anyway, ideally, they will actually announce that they're going to screw
us over.
But the problem is, they're the adversary, right?
They're not trying to be helpful to us.
And the adversary gets to pick the battle, right?
So, if their goal is, let's say that they've decided
there are a bunch of bad actors actors on AppRoto.
And they need to get these bad actors out of the directory
so that they can get AppRoto's spreading properly in
corporate environments, which are stubbornly resistant, whatever they want to do,
right?
They get to set the precedents, so they can reorg
out Jesse Single.
I don't know if you're familiar with this guy.
There's a guy who's really, really unpopular on Blue
Sky.
He writes nasty things about trans people.
Blue Sky users are always badgering Blue Sky to ban
this person.
And Blue Sky is saying, well, he hasn't actually violated the
terms of service, so we can't.
If you do something that, to me, looks rogue but is re
org out Jesse Single, this is very popular among Blue Sky users.
Another thing they can do is they can pick at the fact
ional fault lines.
So, right now, we're at this very blessed time of a
new decentralized community where basically everybody's friends.
And you can just see here and there the little green shoots
of what in the future will be a vast forest of bitter
factional grudges.
And they can work on these, right?
You know, they can do something to somebody who's a bad
guy to one of the factions and the other faction loves us.
Because what they've got to do here is they've got
to prevent us from forming consensus.
And it's much, much harder to form a consensus than it
is to disrupt the consensus.
Forming consensus is really hard.
So, if we're trying to form a consensus about we're
going to move over to this guy because of this problem, they
get to pick at those fault lines and make it hard for
us.
Okay, next problem is, do we have an up-to-date mirror?
So, right now, there's loads of really good work going on
in Blue Sky and outside Blue Sky to make it really easy
to run a mirror of the PLC directory.
So, ideally, what happens here is, you know, loads and loads of
people have got their own mirrors.
People aren't really relying too much on the PLC directory.
But in any case, we can always get the latest data and
we can say, from this point in time, we're not using
the old directory, we're using the new directory.
Okay?
The problem is that they're the adversary, right?
They're not trying to help us.
And our ability to get this mirror is dependent on the adversary.
So, if you look at what any organization does before it screws
the users over, the number one thing, day zero of initialification,
is to dismantle the accountability mechanisms, right?
Dismantle anything that will give your users the ability
to exit.
So, for example, if you're Instagram or Reddit or Twitter, then
you're going to turn off your API.
This happens before the actual, like, the algorithms go to shit and
your application experience becomes useless.
First, you turn off the APIs and then you wait a bit.
And that way, nobody else has got a way to help you
exit, to give you an alternative.
Another example.
Week one of the Trump administration, on the first Friday night, he
fired the 17th inspector general, who were supposed to be the
independent observers who would hold him accountable for corruption in his administration.
If you're actually going to do corruption, you remove the things
that will hold you accountable for corruption.
Okay?
So, what would it look like?
Well, the mirrors just sort of stopped working on a Friday night,
you know?
Nobody seems to be able to pull from them anymore, don't
know what's going on.
I'm hitting this end point.
It's not working.
It's working for me.
It's not working for you.
You know, you get somebody to answer on a Tuesday and they
'll say, "Oh, we're looking into it.
You know, maybe waste our time a little bit.
Give us, like, a URL for some log files so they see
if you can help, you know, see if you can diagnose the
problem." And it's like eight terabytes of just irrelevant log
files, you know?
They've got all the cards here.
Another thing they can do is they can spam the mirrors to
death because one of the amazing things about this system is that
it's designed to kind of hold infinity records.
Like, there's no cost to writing to it.
The only limitation on putting loads of stuff in the PLC
directory is that the operator is doing some rate limiting on, like,
IPs and PDSs and stuff like that.
But in theory, as far as I know, everything is supposed to
go in there.
So, they can allow other people spam in there.
They can turn off the rate limiting until the mirrors fall over.
They can also create their own spam.
And the great thing about creating your own spam is you can
do this deterministically from a secret seed.
The mirrors have to hold all the data to have a complete
set.
You don't even have to hold the data.
All you need is your seed and a serial number, and you
can serve it.
So, they've got all the cards when it comes to, like,
spamming the mirrors and just making it impossible for people to
hold them accountable.
Okay.
So, what can we do to mitigate this?
I should be clear these aren't quite solutions, but they will
help.
So, we can run lots of mirrors, right?
And this is something that's already, like, already happening a little
bit.
So, we can – when we write, instead of writing to the PL
C directory, we can write to the mirror and have the mirror
keep a log and share what they write, and then forward that
on to the directory.
So, that way, if the directory isn't giving us all its
data, we should still kind of maybe be able to piece some
of it together.
Try to get consensus on what the mirrors are actually showing us.
So, if the mirroring stops working on a Friday, we want
also – we at least want to know that as of Thursday, we
all know what it should be showing.
There's then some technical things that I'll come to.
This is really important.
We need to figure out what is the social contract to did
PLC and get this really clear and get this clear as
soon as we possibly can.
Like, I read the spec with my crypto brain, and it talks
about avoiding censorship.
And to my – like, in crypto, like, if you're preventing a
ransomware payment from going to Kim Jong-un, that's censorship.
But, like, I don't know what the rest of the app
proto community thinks about this.
Like, is it the job of the PLC directory to accommodate
everybody, you know, spammers, scammers, malware authors?
Are they all supposed to go in there or not?
Like, what's the deal?
What happens to, you know, child porn or accounts linking to child
porn?
What is the actual job of this directory?
What is it that would tell us if it was going rogue?
I don't know if that's clear to some people.
It's not clear to me.
So – and the later we leave this, the harder it is to
figure it out, not least because we'll have all the fact
ional squabbling.
So some more things – some practical things you can do.
Keep your ID self-authenticating, right?
So remember I said earlier we had the blessed dids where
you could fully validate just from available data, and we had the
cursed dids with Sadako crawling out of your TV screen,
where we potentially had a fork in the timeline, or we had,
like, potentially somebody could create a data fork in the timeline.
So if you keep your own rotation key, if, when you sign
up, you make your own – make your own rotation key, write down
the seed phrase or whatever you do, and don't lose that,
you probably never need to change it, right?
I mean, you know, Nostra doesn't do rotation keys,
it seems like a – there's an obvious pattern if you're
using most out-processed stuff where you feel like you register
on Blue Sky first, and then you move to whatever PDS
you were hoping to stick with.
It's better if you can just go straight to the PD
S, and that way you don't have this rotation key in
your history that is controlled by Blue Sky.
I don't quite – okay, I put don't use it.
This is a slightly too strong a case, but there's this –
remember we had recoverable in the four features.
So there's this feature in DIP PLC where if
you have a high-profile, like a high-priority
rotation key and a low-priority rotation key, you can
cancel the actions of the low priority one with the high priority
one.
And this is sort of useful, but it automatically creates this fork
in your dead, right?
It automatically causes Sadako to come crawling out of your TV
screen and reduces your – the security properties of your account.
So, one more thing.
If you are hosting PDSs for somebody else, a dead
rotation key is toxic waste, right?
Plan the life cycle of your rotation keys.
If you use – I don't know if this is still true,
but when I tried it – if you use the stock PDS
that Blue Sky provided, it will set one rotation key for all
your users.
And that means that if one of your users moves off your
PDS, then you still can't delete it because you need
it for other users.
It would be better to do what we do with the signing
keys and create it when they sign up and then delete it
if they move off, okay?
So, all this just makes it – it makes the individual user safer,
but it also means that in the case where we have to
do this switch from a rogue PLC directory, we have far
less ambiguous data that we have to somehow deal with.
So, okay.
Let me talk a bit about ways that this can be more
robust.
And the first one I'm very pleased to say is happening.
This is really cool.
So, T-logs.
We heard from Filippo earlier about T-logs.
This should make it much more reliable to mirror.
We can all tell that we've got the same mirror quite
easily.
We can quite easily sync up on the same thing.
And we've got like a log of the history of what
the sequence actually sequenced.
So, this is really important.
We can have loads of people with like very lightweight devices ver
ifying that that log is being appended to and not like
reorg, as I understand it.
And we can also have people run monitors who check that the
rules are actually correctly applied.
So, this is already great and it will really help.
Ideally, we will push this as far down the stack as we
possibly can.
So, ideally, if the directory stops cooperating with the system, we
want stuff to break.
But this is the problem of having this kind of single position
of authority.
They've got the official organization.
They've got the single right privileges.
The problem with this is they have the ability to just kind
of turn that stuff off, right?
Because if you're a developer, you know, you've got a
choice between no records and invalid records.
What are you going to do, right?
Unless we can really, really quickly coordinate this flag and move to
a new directory.
And this is the difference with how certificate transparency works with certificate
authorities, right?
With like certificate transparency for SSL certificates.
Because there, if you have a bad certificate authority that refuses to
participate in the or breaks its participation in the scheme, which apparently
does sometimes happen, your users can always get a certificate from another
authority.
But this is specifically the power that we don't have, at
least in protocol in this system.
You cannot move sequencer in didplc.
All we can do is try to coordinate this incredible flag day.
There's a proposal a while back by Nick, who's someone
you know, to make it possible to choose your directory.
I don't think this allows you to escape from a bad
directory, but I think it potentially really helps.
So that instead of having this single privileged position of the did
plc directory that is in charge of didplc, you
potentially have a bunch of different operators.
So I really like this.
And then, finally, I'm going to talk about some decentralized consensus
approaches.
So there are two serious problems with decentralized consensus for this application
and for a lot of approach applications.
The first is that, like, in the American culture wars, everything must
have a side.
And apparently, like, an open validator set is MAGA-c
oded nowadays, right?
So, like, you can't say blockchain.
You know, you have to kind of reinvent blockchain but not tell
people.
So there's that problem.
And then the other problem is writing to a decentralized ledger
generally costs you money.
And the reason why it costs you money is because it needs
to somehow manage spam, right?
So if you don't want to put anybody in charge of
deciding what is a legitimate transaction, and also if you want to
preserve the ability to mirror the entire dataset, then the only way
I think that anybody knows is to charge money to write.
So a couple of approaches.
Well, there's a BFT system that somebody wrote.
I think a lot of this stuff could probably be rewritten
in the light of T-logs.
But there's a BFT suggestion using Comet BFT.
I haven't looked very hard at it, but it's maybe
interesting.
A couple of ideas by me.
The idea here is if we're going to use a blockchain,
we want to have to avoid writing to it all the time.
And we especially want to avoid regular users having to write to
it.
So a couple of things.
P2P guardrails.
This is a suggestion where, firstly, you can change your sequencer.
So if the directory is bad, you can escape.
Secondly, if the sequencer refuses to sequence something for you, then
you or somebody on your behalf can send it to the blockchain
and we can read it off there.
And finally, we do some reorg protection based on kind of
T-log-like checksums so that you can prove that you
previously had something already accepted and that it shouldn't be re
org'd.
And then finally, this one, didcow.
This is a proposal for a new kind of did.
And actually, what set me thinking about this was I saw that
people are trying to do organizational control of dids.
So, for example, you've got a decentralized organization, you've got
a bunch of different people, and they all want to share control
in some way of a did.
And this is something that some of the blockchain tooling does really,
really well.
So I thought it would be useful if you had kind of
an explicitly kind of blockchain oriented way of doing this.
And the proposal is very simply, you make an ID with the
controller blockchain address that wraps your regular ID.
You don't have to do a blockchain transaction to write this
because if there's nothing on the blockchain, we're just going
to use the thing that was in your address.
And then if you want to move your wrapped ID, let's
say you lose trust in did PLC, or you want to
move from a cursed PLC entry to a non-cursed
one, or you want to move to a did web or a
different did web, whatever you want to do, you can repoint
this one with a blockchain transaction.
Okay, so that's all I got.
I've put links for all the technical things I talked about
up here, and I've also pinned this to my profile on
GoatNavy on Blue Sky.
That clock says one minute, but we actually have a couple of
minutes.
So do we have any questions?
And actually, no, first, thank you.
This was amazing.
Okay.
So why don't we just all use did webs and then
push the fight to the DNS layer?
Yeah.
If you'd asked me that a year ago, I would have
said we should all use did webs.
But at that time, I had very naive assumptions about the nation
state governed liberal institutions like, with a did web, everything is under
a registrar, which is under a nation state.
And it seems like nation states will turn to fascism even
within like a three year time span or something.
So I don't feel like that confident, like having a did
web for the next 20 years.
If it was five years, I'm kind of cool with the
did web.
So yeah.
So I think for long term, there's that.
And then the practical problem with did web is just that people
have a hard time not losing their control of their own of
their domain.
And also that the registrar will keep putting the price up
with the domain as well.
Hi.
Thank you for all of the list of things we can do
to screw everybody over.
No.
Okay.
Seriously.
Speaking of my personal capacity.
But okay.
So homework.
Sounds like we should make the policies for what is and isn
't going to go in explicit so they will bind us for
the future.
Yes.
We should like Tlogs are good.
I saw here.
And maybe considered Tlog witnesses, Tlog mirrors, Tlog monitors.
Well monitors are permissionless.
But witnesses.
Anything else?
Right.
So apart from kind of changing the whole system.
Actually, one thing that occurred to me the other day was
it would make more sense to separate out the reading and the
sequencing.
Right?
So if you are writing that Tlog, you don't necessarily
need to be running the directory.
Does that make sense?
Right?
You need your own version of the directory and you give proof
s to people when they asked to write to it.
But anybody could be running those directories.
And I think it would be really useful if we could just
avoid this social point of like the PLC directory, which is
clearly like the dictator of all things PLC.
That would really help.
So like at least potentially, you know, maybe have different organizations.
Maybe Blue Sky should keep PLC directory and you should just
do sequencing at the non-profit.
And the non-sequencing part here is just a read-only
service that makes things available.
Is that right?
Well, actually, I mean, there's a couple of ways to do
it.
One way to do it would be just to do timestamps.
So you would literally get a message and say, "What time did
I give you this message?" And then you give it back to
them with a signature.
But I think you could do something similar with the T log,
like some feature of T logs.
Yeah, I think the T log equivalent is a read-only replica,
which can also choose to the set of witnesses that signed that
T log.
But that can be done permissionlessly.
Like anybody can spin one of those up downstream.
Anybody can spring up a mirror.
But what I want to communicate here is that the switching over
from the PLC, like the PLC, it's a social
arrangement, just as much as a technical arrangement, right?
So who do people think runs the PLC?
And this is why earlier I said, like, until I was practicing
this talk, I thought it was a good idea to move to
a new organization.
And now I don't, because the new organization will actually have
much more authority than the old organization.
Like, if I look at those really good social recovery operations, they
're all against some evil corporation.
So we can we can totally paint blue sky as an evil
corporation, and like organize this social recovery to foil their evil plans.
But like with a Swiss organization that's, you know, it's...
Worse reputation is that better.
You have to wear, you have to wear hoods with the
robes with hoods, basically.
And then yeah, okay.
Let's take two more.
Anybody else?
Well, this is maybe going into the weeds a bit too much.
But I'm curious why the did cow proposal didn't have
included chain ID, if I understand correctly, the address is a smart
contract.
That's correct.
The reason why it didn't include a chain ID was big
was two reasons.
Firstly, it's already quite long.
And secondly, the big burden, I think actually, of those two proposals,
and also probably the reason why the guardrails proposal is
actually obviously dead in the water, is that you need a, you
need an RPC endpoint, right?
You need a connection to the block, a reconnection to the
blockchain to resolve anything.
So if we have lots of other chains there, then whoever is
resolving this has got to have lots of different working RPC
endpoints.
So I'm kind of like, okay, what's the simplest thing
that could work?
You know, one RPC, no chain ID.
Okay.
Any other questions?
Thank you for closing out the conference with this particular talk.
Thanks for having me.
Okay.
Thank you again.